

This model is from the article:  
**A comprehensive genome-scale reconstruction of Escherichia coli metabolism-2011.**   
Orth JD, Conrad TM, Na J, Lerman JA, Nam H, Feist AM, Palsson BØ. _Mol Syst
Biol._ 2011 Oct 11;7:535. doi: 10.1038/msb.2011.65.
[21988831](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21988831) ,  
**Abstract:**   
The initial genome-scale reconstruction of the metabolic network of
Escherichia coli K-12 MG1655 was assembled in 2000. It has been updated and
periodically released since then based on new and curated genomic and
biochemical knowledge. An update has now been built, named iJO1366, which
accounts for 1366 genes, 2251 metabolic reactions, and 1136 unique
metabolites. iJO1366 was (1) updated in part using a new experimental screen
of 1075 gene knockout strains, illuminating cases where alternative pathways
and isozymes are yet to be discovered, (2) compared with its predecessor and
to experimental data sets to confirm that it continues to make accurate
phenotypic predictions of growth on different substrates and for gene knockout
strains, and (3) mapped to the genomes of all available sequenced E. coli
strains, including pathogens, leading to the identification of hundreds of
unannotated genes in these organisms. Like its predecessors, the iJO1366
reconstruction is expected to be widely deployed for studying the systems
biology of E. coli and for metabolic engineering applications.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

